(labored breathing)
Soulburner...
You did it!
(labored breathing)
(Soulburner)
It's over.
I can't believe it.
Varis is out of the picture.
Which means Playmaker
must now face me...
And I do believe this reunion
deserves a party.
♪♪♪
(Soulburner)
Mom, Dad, Flame...
I did it.
I won.
(Varis)
So be it.
You won because you were finally
able to embrace your past.
Instead of running as fast
as you could from it.
You're right.
And I have you to thank.
You taught me
that my past is a gift.
Not a burden.
Stop that.
You know that I don't
do sentimental.
Now savor this victory,
Soulburner.
Because I vow
you'll never beat me again.
Okay man, chill.
Since I'm a man
of my word,
I'll honor the deal
that we made...
I'll let Playmaker settle
things with the Dark Ignis.
But whatever "friendship"
you have with the program,
you should forget
because you're fighting
for the fate of humanity.
Good luck and farewell forever.
Farwell forever?
Wait you're just
gonna leave?!
That's right.
I won't trouble you again.
Wait! Stop!
You can't do that!
(gasps)
You can't just
walk away!
This whole mess...
It's all because of you, Varis!
So you can't leave now
cuz that's like, like...
Like baking a double layer cake
but then taking off
with all of the frosting!
That is an incomprehensible
metaphor.
Okay.
Maybe it is
but what I'm trying to say,
what I'm trying
to get across here...
is that when this is all over
there are some family friends
I wanna see again.
And since you created
this mess...
What, with the
Lost Incident happening
and the Knights of Hanoi
attacking LINK VRAINS...
Well, the very least
that you could do...
is stick around to make sure
that nothing like that
ever, ever happens again!
The thing is...
I know Playmaker and Ai
will work things out
and make everything
cool again.
But afterwards there's gonna be
thieves and criminals
and hackers who're gonna
try to stir up trouble.
And this is where
you step in, Varis.
To make sure all these bozos
aren't able to cause
any trouble.
Compelling argument.
Really?
You've convinced me.
I'll be here when you need me.
I'm glad.
I think you'll like
being a good guy.
Don't go overboard.
But none of this
will matter unless...
you stop the Dark Ignis.
Well, Playmaker,
guess it's up
to you now.
Seems that way.
Now to bring an end
to this conflict.
Hmmm.
(dramatic music)
(Kolter)
Well Teddy,
thanks for all your help.
Your long journey's
finally over.
I'd say you've earned
some chill time.
Yeah, if I can
remember how to chill.
Hey, by the way...
You seen Yusaku?
I haven't seen him
since he sped away.
Yep.
Just this afternoon.
Yeah?
Tell me...
What'd you guys talk about?
Um... Let's see...
So you're going?
Yeah...
Save me a taco
for when I get back.
Hot dog.
Really?
That's it?
We've already said everything
that needs to be said.
I guess so...
Sure hope he's ready.
(dramatic music)
(Skye)
Yusaku, please save my brother.
(flash sound)
Roken...
That card should prove useful.
(rock music)
(cheerful music)
(suspenseful music)
(gasps)
(Ai)
Hey there, meatbag.
Long time no see!
Hello, Ai.
So you dig the décor?
All done by moi...
Just for you,
of course, old pal!
I spruced up
the place
cuz that Zaizen was
no interior decorator.
C'mon, I'll give ya a tour.
(Yusaku)
Is this the factory floor?
(Ai)
Yup.
This is where all of
the SOLTiS are built.
(clap fingers)
But I made a few tweaks
to SOL Tech's design.
They're all you!
Exactly right
and aren't they gorgeous?
Instead of SOLtiS,
I call 'em SOLtAiS!
You took over SOL Tech
to make copies of yourself?
Yes indeed,
pal o' mine!
I'm installing them
with programs based on my code.
Kind of like a backup.
And like any backup,
they won't be perfect copies
but they'll still have 99%
of my sparkling personality
for each and every household
to enjoy!
You're creating
an army?
Oh come now...
When you say it
like that it sounds so...
Well, so perfectly accurate
if I'm being honest with you.
The SOLtiS are already a hit.
So my version is going
to fly off the shelves!
No offense
but don't you think maybe you're
overestimating your appeal?
Not at all!
Underestimating is more like it!
And when there's more of me
than there are of you humans,
that's when the fun
will really begin...
Well, maybe not so much
for your kind
but definitely for mine!
Because once you humans
are outnumbered,
you'll be outmatched.
And when you're outmatched
that's when we'll make our move.
With one clean sweep,
we'll dust you all up!
Then the war's over!
Easy peasy cheesy breezy.
So what do you say,
can I count on you
making an order
for this exquisite
product?!
They make great gifts too.
Maybe you should get a few.
Do you really want to be
all alone in the world?
But I won't be alone.
There'll be plenty of SOLtAiS!
And who can I get
along better with than myself?
Stop it.
You know that's no way to live!
Let's just agree...
to disagree.
Listen to me, Ai.
I know there are those
who don't believe
humans an AI's can coexist,
but they're wrong.
We proved they were
by working together.
I used to feel the same way,
that's why we fought
together, right?
But I passed the point
of no return.
I already made
a bunch of SOLtAiS.
And there's no refund on them.
Can't let them go
to waste now, can I?
Yes, that's exactly
what you can do, Ai,
so how about you
quit making excuses
and just do it.
Not happening.
See, the assembly line
is fully automated.
SOLtAis will just keep
coming and coming...
So...
You're saying
they can't be stopped?
Nothing can be done?
Well, no,
not exactly.
There is one way,
a final shutdown code I wrote
but thing is...
there's just one way
to trigger it.
Which is?
Someone has to beat me in a duel
as the code is tied to me.
I lose and my army of SOLtAis
and I will shutdown.
And you?
What do you mean, Ai,
that you'll be erased?!
Yeah, but I don't plan on it
because I like existing.
But if any meatbag
is going to stop me,
I want it to be you.
That's why I invited you here.
Sorry to disappoint you
but I have no interest
in dueling you.
We've been
through too much together.
Hey, yeah,
completely understand.
So guess that means
the end of humanity is certain!
There's no other way?
There isn't.
Either AIs survive
or humans do.
That's it, that's all.
That's the chips on the table.
Now, what's your choice?
Please Ai, surely there are
other options
that we can explore together.
You keep using this word,
"together."
But haven't you
realized it yet?
That word simply no longer
applies to you and me.
Yes, there was a time where
you and I worked well,
as you say, "together."
But that's now behind us
and there it will stay.
Get it through your head,
Yusaku,
the band has broken up,
the cookie has crumbled,
the trees gone timber.
Your favorite pair of socks,
one's been lost in the wash!
Okay, maybe that last four
were a stretch.
But what isn't
a stretch is this:
Everything humanity
has been in the past
and might be in the future...
all rests on your
shoulders right now.
So now I ask you
one more time, Yusaku:
What's your choice?
Put that way...
There is no choice,
I must duel.
That's what I wanted to hear.
So let's get on with it.
Perfect.
(Both)
It's time for us
to link into the VRAINS!
(rock music)
(Both)
Duel!
I will go first.
I summon GARBAGE COLLECTOR
in attack mode!
Next, I activate the spell
CYNET OPTIMIZATION!
It lets me summon FLAME BUFFERLO
from my hand in attack mode!
Then due to GARBAGE
COLLECTOR's ability,
I can return a Cyberse monster
that's on my field
back to my hand
in order to summon
another Cyberse from my deck
that has the exact same Level
as the monster I retrieved!
So FLAME BUFFERLO
returns to my hand!
And SEA ARCHIVER
takes its place!
Next up, FLAME BUFFERLO's
ability activates!
Whenever it leaves the field,
I can discard
one Cyberse from my hand
to draw two cards from my deck.
Then I'll use both my monsters
to Link Summon
Link 2 SPLASH MAGE!
I use my MAGE's
special ability...
to revive a Cyberse
from my graveyard
in defense mode.
So now return to my field,
SEA ARCHIVER!
This allows me
to Link Summon again!
Link 3 DECODE TALKER!
I place one card facedown
and end my turn.
DECODE TALKER...
That's the first Link Monster
that me and you summoned
back in the day.
Yeah...
It's pretty hard to believe
that those were
the simpler times.
I remember...
Back when Kolter and I found
the Cyberse Deck,
we thought we were lucky,
but now I know
it wasn't coincidence.
It was alllll me.
I couldn't fight against Varis
and the Knights of Hanoi
because they were
hunting me down.
But I knew I could
manipulate you
into fighting them for me.
So...
You left a trail of breadcrumbs
in just such a way
that would lead me
straight to the Cyberse Deck
so I'd have the perfect weapon
to fight against the Hanoi
for you...
and fight against them I did
without knowing you were
behind it the whole time.
But is that the whole story?
After the Lost Incident,
I was determined
to make the Hanoi pay.
And when I got the Cyberse Deck
I realized that I finally had
the power to stand up to them.
My existence was
no long on the brink.
I had cards
strong enough
to take on the extreme dangers
I would be facing...
and none of that would have
been possible
had it not been for you, Ai.
True...
(Playmaker)
You claim you needed
my help to fight the Hanoi.
But I disagree.
With all my heart.
You see, Ai,
I believe
that the opposite is true...
What I believe is this:
You wanted to help me fight
against the Knights of Hanoi.
Help you?
(Playmaker)
That's correct.
Now listen...
I know you want
to paint yourself
as the master puppeteer
in all this...
But I don't buy it.
Bravo, for someone not known
for their colorful
imagination...
This is certainly
a wonderous work of fiction
that you've managed
to come up with.
But if you truly believe that
I didn't trick you into this,
then I guess gullible
is your middle name!
Of course, I suppose
that would make sense,
it would explain why you made
such an excellent puppet
for this puppeteer!
(Playmaker)
Spin it however you like.
It's not a spin, Playmaker.
You're suggesting that
I wasn't watching you...
That in fact...
All of this time,
I was watching over you?
It's no suggestion, Ai,
because it's fact.
You're wrong.
And I'll prove it
by securing victory right here!
Now, old friend,
your former partner
will become...
your worst enemy!
I summon PIKARI @IGNISTER!
Thanks to PIKARI's ability
I can draw a spell from my deck.
IGNISTER A.I.LAND!
And now...
I Link Summon Link 1 LINGURIBOH!
And I'll follow that up
with this!
The Field Spell
IGNISTER A.I.LAND
summons DOYON @IGNISTER
from my hand!
Then I activate DOYON's
special ability!
It lets me retrieve
PIKARI from my graveyard!
Then I'll activate
another spell,
COMPROMA.I.SE!
Once per turn,
I can transform my @IGNISTER
into a spell card
and move it
into my Spell & Trap Zone.
This means your
Main Monster Zone's empty again.
(Ai)
And when it it's empty,
IGNISTER A.I.LAND
summons PIKARI...
right back from my hand!
And then I use its ability
to draw a second IGNISTER
A.I.LAND from my deck
but that's only half of it.
Summoning PIKARI
triggered COMPROMA.I.SE's
second effect!
Once per turn,
it moves an @IGNISTER that's
in my Spell & Trap Zone
back to my Main Monster Zone!
So my DOYON is
once again a monster!
Now that I have three monsters,
I have all I need
to Link Summon!
It is time to unleash a monster
forged from the darkest
depths of the shadows,
striking fear
into all who witness
its majestic might!
So here it is,
the one, the only, the awesome,
Link 3 DARK TEMPLAR @IGNISTER!
I activate IGNISTER A.I.LAND
to summon ACHICHI @IGNISTER
next to DARK TEMPLAR's link.
And when a monster
is summoned next to its link,
DARK TEMPLAR can revive
other @IGNISTERS
from my graveyard...
to fill up the rest
of its links.
With these three,
I will now create my circuit!
From the infernal blaze
that gave birth to the universe,
comes a monster that scorches
all who cross its path!
Rise up Link 3 FIRE PHOENIX
@IGNISTER!
But that's not all...
To prove how badly
I wanna win...
I'll play that which destroyed
the Cyberse!
(grunts)
Check it.
It's the Link Spell that's
no friend to me or you!
From my quiver of cards,
I play JUDGMENT ARROWS!
(grunts)
Ready, Playmaker?
Time to battle!
Are you sure
you want to do that?
Due to CYNET's effect,
when you battle
my DECODE TALKER
you can't use...
your effects
or any of your abilities.
That means your
JUDGMENT ARROWS is useless.
Looks like you were already
prepared for my strategy
so it won't be smart to attack.
But oh well.
I'll attack anyway!
Go, FIRE PHOENIX!
Attack!
That attack won't work!
Cuz I have this:
My trap CODE HACK!
Once per turn,
when my DECODE TALKER battles
This trap can activate!
It drops your monster's
attack points to zero
for the remainder of this turn!
Luckily for you, in exchange,
your monster can't be
destroyed from this battle,
and you take no damage.
You may have stopped
one of my attacks,
but luckily I still
have another!
DARK TEMPLAR!
Put your sword to use!
And attack DECODE TALKER!
My DARK TEMPLAR
and your DECODE TALKER
have the same number
of attack points.
But DARK TEMPLAR
can't be destroyed
by a monster
with equal strength,
so only your monster's
role is getting cut!
And just like that...
Round 1 is now
coming to a close.
And since me and monsters
are done attacking,
CODE HACK's effect
now shuts down.
And PHOENIX's attack points
rise from the ashes...
Back to 2300.
I place one card facedown
and that ends my turn.
Let's recap shall we?
We each had a turn.
We each played
some cards.
But now I have two monsters
and you have none.
That tells me that you'd
better up you game.
Or humanity is going down.
Ai...
♪♪♪